docs/asciidoc/modules.adoc, before:

== Modules

Modules are a key concept for building reusable and configurable pieces of software.

Modules (unlike in other frameworks) are thin and do a lot of work to bootstrap and configure an 
external library, but they DO NOT provide a new level of abstraction nor [do] they provide a custom
API to access functionality in that library. Instead they expose the library components as they are.

Modules are shipped as separated jar/dependency and usually implement the javadoc:Extension[] API.

In general they provide a `builder` class to create the and configure the external library from 
configuration properties.

The module name is usually the same as the library, except when library comes with a class with the
same name. To avoid name collisions we choose one of following convention:

- An abbreviation of the name/library. For example: `Hibernate` -> `Hbm`, `Handlebars -> Hbs`, `Freemarker` -> `Ftl`.
- Add a `by` suffix. For example: `Hibernate` -> `Hibernateby`, `Guice` -> `Guiceby`, `Handelbars` -> `Handlebarsby`

=== Data

- link:modules/hikari[Hikari Connection Pool]: A high-performance JDBC connection pool.

=== Template Engine

- link:modules/freemarker[Freemarker Template Engine]: Freemarker templates for Jooby.

.

Commit message:

Doc + Handlebars and Jackson cleanup

docs/asciidoc/modules.adoc, after:

== Modules

Modules are a key concept for building reusable and configurable pieces of software.

Modules (unlike in other frameworks) are thin and do a lot of work to bootstrap and configure an 
external library, but they DO NOT provide a new level of abstraction nor [do] they provide a custom
API to access functionality in that library. Instead they expose the library components as they are.

Modules are distributed as separated jar/dependency and usually implement the javadoc:Extension[] API.

In general they provide a `builder` class to create the and configure the external library from 
configuration properties.

The module name is usually the same as the library, except when library comes with a class with the
same name. To avoid name collisions we choose one of following convention:

- An abbreviation of the name/library. For example: `Hibernate` -> `Hbm`, `Handlebars -> Hbs`, `Freemarker` -> `Ftl`.
- Add a `by` suffix. For example: `Hibernate` -> `Hibernateby`, `Guice` -> `Guiceby`, `Handelbars` -> `Handlebarsby`

Available modules are listed next.

=== Data
   * link:modules/hikari[HikariCP]: A high-performance JDBC connection pool.

=== JSON
   * link:modules/jackson[Jackson]: Jackson module for Jooby.

=== Template Engine
   * link:modules/handlebars[Handlebars]: Handlebars templates for Jooby.
   * link:modules/freemarker[Freemarker]: Freemarker templates for Jooby.

.
