docs/asciidoc/testing.adoc, before:

== Testing

This section will show you how to run unit and integration tests with Jooby.

=== Unit Testing

1) Add Jooby test dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-test"]
.

2) Write your application:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> "Easy unit testing!");
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,java,role="kotlin"]
----
class App: Kooby({

  get("/") { ctx ->
    "Easy unit testing!"
  }

})
----

3) Write your test:

.TestApp
[source,java,role="primary"]
----

import io.jooby.MockRouter;

public class TestApp {
  
  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    assertEquals("OK", router.get("/").value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.MockRouter

class TestApp {
  
  @Test
  fun test() {
    val router = MockRouter(App())
    assertEquals("OK", router.get("/").value())
  }
}
----

Simple and easy {love}!

The javadoc:MockRouter[] returns the value produced by the route handler. It is possible to get
access and check response metadata:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> ctx
        .setResponseCode(StatusCode.OK)
        .send("Easy unit testing")
    );
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class App: Kooby({
  get("/") { ctx ->
      ctx.responseCode = StatusCode.OK

      ctx.send("Easy unit testing")
  })
})
----

.Checking response metadata
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    router.get("/", response -> {
      assertEquals(StatusCode.OK, response.getStatusCode());
      assertEquals("Easy unit testing", response.value(String.class));
    });
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    val router = MockRouter(App())
    router.get("/") { response ->
      assertEquals(StatusCode.OK, response.statusCode)
      assertEquals("Easy unit testing", response.value(String::class))
    }
  }
}
----

For more complex route context interaction or responses, you can pass in a javadoc:MockContext[]:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    post("/", ctx -> {
      String name = ctx.form("name").value();
      return name;
    });
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class App: Kooby({
  get("/") { ctx ->
    val name = ctx.form("name").value()
    name
  })
})
----

.Using mock context
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    MockContext context = new MockContext()
        .setForm(Formdata.create()
            .put("name", "Test!")
        );
    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    MockRouter router = MockRouter(App())
    MockContext context = MockContext().apply {
      form = Formdata.create().apply {
        put("name", "Test!")
      }
    }
    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value())
  }
}
----

Alternative you can provide your own mock context:

.Mockito Context
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
import static org.mockito.Mockito.mock;
import static org.mockito.Mockito.when;

public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    Value name = mock(Value.class);
    when(name.value()).thenReturn("Test!");
    
    Context context = mock(Context.class);
    when(context.form("name")).thenReturn(name);

    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());

    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import org.mockito.Mockito.mock
import org.mockito.Mockito.when

class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    val name = mock(Value::class.java)
    when(name.value()).thenReturn("Test!")
    
    val context = mock(Context::class.java)
    when(context.form("name")).thenReturn(name)
    
    MockRouter router = MockRouter(App())

    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value())
  }
}
----

{love} {love}!

For MVC routes you might prefer to write a unit test using a mock library. No need to use 
`MockRouter`, but it is possible too.

By default the javadoc:MockRouter[] class execute the route handler. For executing the entire
pipeline use: javadoc:MockRouter[setFullExecution].

Unit testing is simple and easy in Jooby. The javadoc:MockRouter[] let you to execute route function,
while the javadoc:MockContext[] allows you to create an light-weight and mutable context where
you can set HTTP parameters, body, headers, etc.

=== Integration Testing

Integration tests are supported via JUnit 5 extension mechanism.

1) Add Jooby test dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-test"]
.

2) Write your application:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> "Easy testing!");
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,java,role="kotlin"]
----
class App: Kooby({

  get("/") { ctx ->
    "Easy testing!"
  }

})
----

3) Write your test:

.TestApp
[source,java,role="primary"]
----

import io.jooby.JoobyTest;

@JoobyTest(App.class)
public class TestApp {
  
  static OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient();

  @Test
  public void test() {
    Request request = new Request.Builder()
        .url("http://localhost:8911")
        .build();

    try (Response response = client.newCall(request).execute()) {
      assertEquals("Easy testing!", response.body().string());
    }
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.JoobyTest

@JoobyTest(App.class)
class TestApp {
  
  companion object {
    const client = OkHttpClient()
  }
  
  @Test
  fun test() {
    val request = Request.Builder()
        .url("http://localhost:8911")
        .build()

    client.newCall(request).execute().use { response ->
      assertEquals("Easy testing!", response.body().string())
    }
  }
}
----

The example uses https://square.github.io/okhttp/[OkHttp] client, but you are free to use any other HTTP client.

Simple and easy {love}!

The javadoc:JoobyTest[] takes care of start and stop the application.

Adding the annotation at class-level starts a single application before running tests and stop it 
after all them. The default port at class level is: `8911`.

Adding the annotation at method-level starts an application before running the test and stop it
once it finish. The default port at method level is `random`.

Default application port can be configured directly using the javadoc:JoobyTest[port] method:

`@JoobyTest(value = App.class, port = 9999)`

If port is set to zero(0) a random port is selected. You can inject the server port in your test like:

.Server port injection
[source,java]
----
@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void test(int serverPort) {
  
}

@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void anotherTest(int serverPort) {
  
}
----

The parameter name must be `serverPort` and be of type `int`. This injection let you access to the
random port used for the method-level application test.

There is a `serverPath` value too, which is the entire path to the server:

.Server path injection
[source,java]
----
@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void test(String serverPath) { <1>
  
}
----

The `serverPath` variable contains the entire path: `http://localhost:port/contextPath`.

Here is the list of available injectable values:

* `int serverPort`: Give you the port where the application is listening. This is named type injection (name and type are required).
* `String serverPath`: Give you the entire server path where the application is listening. This is named type injection (name and type are required).
* `io.jooby.Environment`: Give you access to the application environment. This is a type injection (name no matter).
* `com.typesafe.config.Config`: Give you access to the application environment. This is a type injection (name no matter).
* `io.jooby.Jooby`: Give you access to the application. This is a type injection (name no matter).

These values can be injected via parameter or instance fields.

The javadoc:JoobyTest[] annotation starts the application using the `test` environment name. You can
creates a `conf/application.test.conf` file to override any other values for testing purpose.

Commit message:

Late init for better unit tests

docs/asciidoc/testing.adoc, after:

== Testing

This section will show you how to run unit and integration tests with Jooby.

=== Unit Testing

1) Add Jooby test dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-test"]
.

2) Write your application:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> "Easy unit testing!");
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,java,role="kotlin"]
----
class App: Kooby({

  get("/") { ctx ->
    "Easy unit testing!"
  }

})
----

3) Write your test:

.TestApp
[source,java,role="primary"]
----

import io.jooby.MockRouter;

public class TestApp {
  
  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    assertEquals("OK", router.get("/").value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.MockRouter

class TestApp {
  
  @Test
  fun test() {
    val router = MockRouter(App())
    assertEquals("OK", router.get("/").value())
  }
}
----

Simple and easy {love}!

The javadoc:MockRouter[] returns the value produced by the route handler. It is possible to get
access and check response metadata:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> ctx
        .setResponseCode(StatusCode.OK)
        .send("Easy unit testing")
    );
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class App: Kooby({
  get("/") { ctx ->
      ctx.responseCode = StatusCode.OK

      ctx.send("Easy unit testing")
  })
})
----

.Checking response metadata
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    router.get("/", response -> {
      assertEquals(StatusCode.OK, response.getStatusCode());
      assertEquals("Easy unit testing", response.value(String.class));
    });
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    val router = MockRouter(App())
    router.get("/") { response ->
      assertEquals(StatusCode.OK, response.statusCode)
      assertEquals("Easy unit testing", response.value(String::class))
    }
  }
}
----

For more complex route context interaction or responses, you can pass in a javadoc:MockContext[]:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    post("/", ctx -> {
      String name = ctx.form("name").value();
      return name;
    });
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class App: Kooby({
  get("/") { ctx ->
    val name = ctx.form("name").value()
    name
  })
})
----

.Using mock context
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());
    MockContext context = new MockContext()
        .setForm(Formdata.create()
            .put("name", "Test!")
        );
    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    MockRouter router = MockRouter(App())
    MockContext context = MockContext().apply {
      form = Formdata.create().apply {
        put("name", "Test!")
      }
    }
    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value())
  }
}
----

Alternative you can provide your own mock context:

.Mockito Context
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
import static org.mockito.Mockito.mock;
import static org.mockito.Mockito.when;

public class TestApp {

  @Test
  public void test() {
    Value name = mock(Value.class);
    when(name.value()).thenReturn("Test!");
    
    Context context = mock(Context.class);
    when(context.form("name")).thenReturn(name);

    MockRouter router = new MockRouter(new App());

    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value());
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import org.mockito.Mockito.mock
import org.mockito.Mockito.when

class TestApp {

  @Test
  fun test() {
    val name = mock(Value::class.java)
    when(name.value()).thenReturn("Test!")
    
    val context = mock(Context::class.java)
    when(context.form("name")).thenReturn(name)
    
    MockRouter router = MockRouter(App())

    assertEquals("Test!", router.post("/", context).value())
  }
}
----

{love} {love}!

For MVC routes you might prefer to write a unit test using a mock library. No need to use 
`MockRouter`, but it is possible too.

==== Options

- javadoc:MockRouter[setFullExecution]: the javadoc:MockRouter[] class ONLY execute the route
handler. For executing the entire pipeline use: javadoc:MockRouter[setFullExecution].

- javadoc:Jooby[setLateInit]: extension modules usually run at the time they are installed it. 
This might not be ideally for unit tests. To delay extension initialization use the javadoc:Jooby[setLateInit] mode.

Unit testing is simple and easy in Jooby. The javadoc:MockRouter[] let you execute the route function,
while the javadoc:MockContext[] allows you to create an light-weight and mutable context where
you can set HTTP parameters, body, headers, etc.

=== Integration Testing

Integration tests are supported via JUnit 5 extension mechanism.

1) Add Jooby test dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-test"]
.

2) Write your application:

.App
[source,java,role="primary"]
----
public class App extends Jooby {
  {
    get("/", ctx -> "Easy testing!");
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,java,role="kotlin"]
----
class App: Kooby({

  get("/") { ctx ->
    "Easy testing!"
  }

})
----

3) Write your test:

.TestApp
[source,java,role="primary"]
----

import io.jooby.JoobyTest;

@JoobyTest(App.class)
public class TestApp {
  
  static OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient();

  @Test
  public void test() {
    Request request = new Request.Builder()
        .url("http://localhost:8911")
        .build();

    try (Response response = client.newCall(request).execute()) {
      assertEquals("Easy testing!", response.body().string());
    }
  }
}
----

.Kotlin
[source,kotlin,role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.JoobyTest

@JoobyTest(App.class)
class TestApp {
  
  companion object {
    const client = OkHttpClient()
  }
  
  @Test
  fun test() {
    val request = Request.Builder()
        .url("http://localhost:8911")
        .build()

    client.newCall(request).execute().use { response ->
      assertEquals("Easy testing!", response.body().string())
    }
  }
}
----

The example uses https://square.github.io/okhttp/[OkHttp] client, but you are free to use any other HTTP client.

Simple and easy {love}!

The javadoc:JoobyTest[] takes care of start and stop the application.

Adding the annotation at class-level starts a single application before running tests and stop it 
after all them. The default port at class level is: `8911`.

Adding the annotation at method-level starts an application before running the test and stop it
once it finish. The default port at method level is `random`.

Default application port can be configured directly using the javadoc:JoobyTest[port] method:

`@JoobyTest(value = App.class, port = 9999)`

If port is set to zero(0) a random port is selected. You can inject the server port in your test like:

.Server port injection
[source,java]
----
@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void test(int serverPort) {
  
}

@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void anotherTest(int serverPort) {
  
}
----

The parameter name must be `serverPort` and be of type `int`. This injection let you access to the
random port used for the method-level application test.

There is a `serverPath` value too, which is the entire path to the server:

.Server path injection
[source,java]
----
@JoobyTest(App.class)
public void test(String serverPath) { <1>
  
}
----

The `serverPath` variable contains the entire path: `http://localhost:port/contextPath`.

Here is the list of available injectable values:

* `int serverPort`: Give you the port where the application is listening. This is named type injection (name and type are required).
* `String serverPath`: Give you the entire server path where the application is listening. This is named type injection (name and type are required).
* `io.jooby.Environment`: Give you access to the application environment. This is a type injection (name no matter).
* `com.typesafe.config.Config`: Give you access to the application environment. This is a type injection (name no matter).
* `io.jooby.Jooby`: Give you access to the application. This is a type injection (name no matter).

These values can be injected via parameter or instance fields.

The javadoc:JoobyTest[] annotation starts the application using the `test` environment name. You can
creates a `conf/application.test.conf` file to override any other values for testing purpose.
