docs/asciidoc/modules/jasypt.adoc, before:

== Jasypt

Decrypt configuration properties using http://www.jasypt.org

=== Usage

1) Add the dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-jasypt"]
.

2) Setup properties:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = password                              <1>

enc.property = "uTSqb9grs1+vUv3iN8lItC0kl65lMG+8"       <2>
----

3) Install

.Java
[source, java, role="primary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule;

{
  install(new JasyptModule());                          <3>

  String property = getConfig().getString("property");  <4>

  System.out.println(property);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source, kotlin, role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule

{
  install(JasyptModule())                               <3>

  val property = config.getString("property")           <4>

  println(property)
}
----

<1> Configure jasypt password. Jasypt use this to encrypt/decrypt values
<2> Prefix encrypted properties with `enc`
<3> Install Jasypt
<4> Get a decrypted property

Due Jasypt overrides configuration properties, must be installed at very beginning of the
application. Once installed, you can access to decrypted properties.

By default, encrypted properties must be prefixed with `enc`, you can change this by setting
your own/preferred prefix:

    install(new JasyptModule().setPrefix("secret"));

Module also export an instance of `PBEStringEncryptor`:

.Java
[source, java, role="primary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule;

{
  install(new JasyptModule());

  PBEStringEncryptor encryptor = require(PBEStringEncryptor.class);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source, kotlin, role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule

{
  install(JasyptModule())

  val encryptor = require(PBEStringEncryptor::class)
}
----

==== Securing password

Password can be configured as application property. It is accessed using the `jasypt.password`
property name. It is important to keep your password safe and private.

One simple way is to use a default password for development and override it with an environment variable. For example:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = mypassword
jasypt.password = ${?JASYPT_PASSWORD}
----

Here Jasypt will use a default value of `mypassword`, unless an environment variable `JASYPT_PASSWORD` is set.

Another option is to keep the password in the file system. For that you need to provide your own
password provider:

.File password provider
[source, java]
----
{
  install(new JasyptModule(config -> {
    return new String(Files.path(Paths.get("mypassword"), UTF-8));
  }));
}
----

The password provider let you read password from multiple sources.

==== Options

Advanced configuration options are available from configuration file:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = mypassword

jasypt.algorithm = PBEWithMD5AndDES
jasypt.keyObtentionIterations = 1000
jasypt.poolSize = 2
jasypt.ivGeneratorClassName = classname
jasypt.saltGeneratorClassName = org.jasypt.salt.RandomSaltGenerator
jasypt.providerName = SunJCE
----

A `PooledPBEStringEncryptor` encryptor is configured when `poolSize` is set.

Commit message:

Jasypt: Add notes for encryption utility

docs/asciidoc/modules/jasypt.adoc, after:

== Jasypt

Decrypt configuration properties using http://www.jasypt.org

=== Usage

1) Add the dependency:

[dependency, artifactId="jooby-jasypt"]
.

2) Setup properties:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = password                              <1>

enc.property = "uTSqb9grs1+vUv3iN8lItC0kl65lMG+8"       <2>
----

3) Install

.Java
[source, java, role="primary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule;

{
  install(new JasyptModule());                          <3>

  String property = getConfig().getString("property");  <4>

  System.out.println(property);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source, kotlin, role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule

{
  install(JasyptModule())                               <3>

  val property = config.getString("property")           <4>

  println(property)
}
----

<1> Configure jasypt password. Jasypt use this to encrypt/decrypt values
<2> Prefix encrypted properties with `enc`
<3> Install Jasypt
<4> Get a decrypted property

Due Jasypt overrides configuration properties, must be installed at very beginning of the
application. Once installed, you can access to decrypted properties.

By default, encrypted properties must be prefixed with `enc`, you can change this by setting
your own/preferred prefix:

    install(new JasyptModule().setPrefix("secret"));

Module also export an instance of `PBEStringEncryptor`:

.Java
[source, java, role="primary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule;

{
  install(new JasyptModule());

  PBEStringEncryptor encryptor = require(PBEStringEncryptor.class);
}
----

.Kotlin
[source, kotlin, role="secondary"]
----
import io.jooby.jasypt.JasyptModule

{
  install(JasyptModule())

  val encryptor = require(PBEStringEncryptor::class)
}
----

==== Encrypting values

Jasypt offers a https://github.com/jasypt/jasypt/releases/latest[command line application] for
doing encryption.

Follow http://www.jasypt.org/cli.html[this guide] to see how to use it.

==== Securing password

Password can be configured as application property. It is accessed using the `jasypt.password`
property name. It is important to keep your password safe and private.

One simple way is to use a default password for development and override it with an environment variable. For example:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = mypassword
jasypt.password = ${?JASYPT_PASSWORD}
----

Here Jasypt will use a default value of `mypassword`, unless an environment variable `JASYPT_PASSWORD` is set.

Another option is to keep the password in the file system. For that you need to provide your own
password provider:

.File password provider
[source, java]
----
{
  install(new JasyptModule(config -> {
    return new String(Files.path(Paths.get("mypassword"), UTF-8));
  }));
}
----

The password provider let you read password from multiple sources.

==== Options

Advanced configuration options are available from configuration file:

.application.conf
[source, properties]
----
jasypt.password = mypassword

jasypt.algorithm = PBEWithMD5AndDES
jasypt.keyObtentionIterations = 1000
jasypt.poolSize = 2
jasypt.ivGeneratorClassName = classname
jasypt.saltGeneratorClassName = org.jasypt.salt.RandomSaltGenerator
jasypt.providerName = SunJCE
----

A `PooledPBEStringEncryptor` encryptor is configured when `poolSize` is set.
