doc/doc/ftl/ftl.md, before:

# freemarker

[Freemarker](http://freemarker.org) templates for [Jooby]({{site}}).

## exports

* Freemarker ```Configuration```
* [ViewEngine]({{defdocs}}/View.Engine.html)

## dependency

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.jooby</groupId>
  <artifactId>jooby-ftl</artifactId>
  <version>{{version}}</version>
</dependency>
```

## usage

```java
{
  use(new Ftl());

  get("/", req -> Results.html("index").put("model", new MyModel());
}
```

public/index.html:

```java
${model}
```

Templates are loaded from root of classpath: ```/``` and must end with: ```.html``` file extension.

## request locals

A template engine has access to ```request locals``` (a.k.a attributes). Here is an example:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl());

  get("*", req -> {
    req.set("foo", "bar");
  });
}
```

Then from template:

```
${foo}
```


## configuration

There are two ways of changing a Freemarker configuration:

* via `.conf` file:

```properties
freemarker.default_encoding = UTF-8
```

* or programmatically:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl().doWith((freemarker, config) -> {
    freemarker.setDefaultEncoding("UTF-8");
  });
}
```

Keep in mind this is just an example and you don't need to set the default encoding. Default encoding is set to: ```application.charset``` which is ```UTF-8``` by default.

## template loader

Templates are loaded from the root of classpath and must end with ```.html```. You can change the default template location and extensions too:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl("/", ".ftl"));
}
```

## cache

Cache is OFF when ```env=dev``` (useful for template reloading), otherwise is ON.

Cache is backed by [Guava](https://github.com/google/guava) and default cache will expire after ```100``` entries.

If ```100``` entries is not enough or you need a more advanced cache setting, just set the
```freemarker.cache``` option:

```properties
freemarker.cache = "expireAfterWrite=1h"
```

See [CacheBuilderSpec](http://docs.guava-libraries.googlecode.com/git/javadoc/com/google/common/cache/CacheBuilderSpec.html) for more detailed expressions.

{{appendix}}

Commit message:

Default Freemarker configuration allows XSS injection fix #1095

doc/doc/ftl/ftl.md, after:

# freemarker

[Freemarker](http://freemarker.org) templates for [Jooby]({{site}}).

## exports

* Freemarker ```Configuration```
* [ViewEngine]({{defdocs}}/View.Engine.html)

## dependency

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.jooby</groupId>
  <artifactId>jooby-ftl</artifactId>
  <version>{{version}}</version>
</dependency>
```

## usage

```java
{
  use(new Ftl());

  get("/", req -> Results.html("index").put("model", new MyModel());
}
```

public/index.html:

```java
${model}
```

Templates are loaded from root of classpath: ```/``` and must end with: ```.html``` file extension.

> **NOTE**: since `1.4.0` Freemarker module uses `HTMLOutputFormat` which prevent HTML XSS injection. See for [more details](https://freemarker.apache.org/docs/pgui_config_outputformatsautoesc.html). 

 
## request locals

A template engine has access to ```request locals``` (a.k.a attributes). Here is an example:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl());

  get("*", req -> {
    req.set("foo", "bar");
  });
}
```

Then from template:

```
${foo}
```


## configuration

There are two ways of changing a Freemarker configuration:

* via `.conf` file:

```properties
freemarker.default_encoding = UTF-8
```

* or programmatically:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl().doWith((freemarker, config) -> {
    freemarker.setDefaultEncoding("UTF-8");
  });
}
```

Keep in mind this is just an example and you don't need to set the default encoding. Default encoding is set to: ```application.charset``` which is ```UTF-8``` by default.

## template loader

Templates are loaded from the root of classpath and must end with ```.html```. You can change the default template location and extensions too:

```java
{
  use(new Ftl("/", ".ftl"));
}
```

## cache

Cache is OFF when ```env=dev``` (useful for template reloading), otherwise is ON.

Cache is backed by [Guava](https://github.com/google/guava) and default cache will expire after ```100``` entries.

If ```100``` entries is not enough or you need a more advanced cache setting, just set the
```freemarker.cache``` option:

```properties
freemarker.cache = "expireAfterWrite=1h"
```

See [CacheBuilderSpec](http://docs.guava-libraries.googlecode.com/git/javadoc/com/google/common/cache/CacheBuilderSpec.html) for more detailed expressions.

{{appendix}}
