doc/routes.md, before:

# routes

A route describes the interface for making requests to your application. It combines an HTTP **method** and a **path pattern**.

A route has an associated **handler**, which does some job and produces some kind of output (HTTP response).

Jooby offers two programming models for writing routes:

* Script routes via **lambdas**, like *Sinatra* or *expressjs*
* MVC routes via **annotations**, like *Jersey* or *Spring* (covered later)

## creating routes

A `script` route definition looks like this:

```java
{
  get("/", () -> "hey jooby");
}
```

while an `MVC` route definition looks like this:

```java

import org.jooby.mvc.GET;
import org.jooby.mvc.Path;

@Path("/")
public class Controller {

  @GET
  public String salute() {
    return "hey jooby";
  }
}
```

MVC routes are [covered later](/doc/#routes-mvc-routes) in detail. For simplicity, all the examples use `script` routes, but keep in mind you can do the same with `MVC` routes.

A route was created to handle GET requests at the root of our application. Any other HTTP method can be handled the same way.

If you need a `POST`:

```java
post("/", () -> "hey jooby");
```

or listen to any `HTTP method`:

```java
use("*", "/", (req, rsp) -> "hey jooby");
```

It's also possible to name a route explicitly:

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby")
   .name("salute");
```

The default route name is **anonymous**. Naming a route is useful for debugging purposes (if you have two or more routes mounted on the same path) and for [dynamic and advanced routing](#routes-dynamic-advanced-routing).

## route handler

Jooby offers several flavors for routes:

### functional handler: ()

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby");
```

This handler usually produces a constant value. The returned value will be sent to the client.

### functional handler: req

```java
get("/", req -> "hey " + req.param("name").value());
```

This handler depends on some `external` attribute which is available via the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html) object. The return value will be sent to the client.

### handler: (req, rsp)

```java
get("/", (req, rsp) -> rsp.send("hey " + req.param("name").value());
```

This handler depends on some `external` attribute which is available to the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html) object and the response is explicitly sent via the [response.send]({{defdocs}}/Response.html#send(java.lang.Object)) method.

### filter: (req, rsp, chain)


```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  // do something
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});
```

This is the most advanced handler. You have access to the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html), the [Response]({{defdocs}}/Response.html) and the [Route.Chain]({{defdocs}}/Route.Chain.html) objects.

From a handler like this, it's possible to end a response by calling the [response.send]({{defdocs}}/Response.html#send(java.lang.Object)) method, abort the request by throwing an [Err]({{defdocs}}/Err.html) or allow the request to proceed to the next handler in the pipeline by calling [chain.next(req, rsp)]({{defdocs}}/Route.Chain.html#next-org.jooby.Request-org.jooby.Response-).

## path patterns

### static patterns

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby");

get("/help", () -> "hey jooby");

get("/mail/inbox", () -> "hey jooby");
```

### var/regex patterns

```java
get("/user/:id", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// alternative syntax
get("/user/{id}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// matches a path element with the prefix "uid"
get("/user/uid{id}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// regex
get("/user/{id:\\d+}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").intValue());
```

Request parameters will be covered later. For now all you need to know is that you can access a path parameter using [Request.param(String)]({{apidocs}}/org/jooby/Request.html#param(java.lang.String)).

### ant style patterns

  ```com/t?st.html``` - matches ```com/test.html``` but also ```com/tast.html``` and ```com/txst.html```

  ```com/*.html``` - matches all ```.html``` files in the ```com``` directory

  ```com/**/test.html``` - matches all ```test.html``` files underneath the ```com``` path

  ```**``` - matches any path at any level

  ```*``` - matches anything except `/`
  
  ```**:name``` or ```{name:**}``` - matches any path at any level and binds the match to the request parameter ```name```

## static files

Static files are located inside the ```public``` directory.

```bash
├── public
    ├── assets
    |   ├── js
    |   |   └── index.js
    |   ├── css
    |   |   └── style.css
    |   └── images
    |       └── logo.png
    └── welcome.html
```

The [assets]({{defdocs}}/Jooby.html#assets-java.lang.String-) method let you expose all the content from a `folder`:

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**");
}
```

The asset route handler resolves requests like:

```
GET /assets/js/index.js
GET /assets/css/style.css
```

It's possible to map a single static file to a path:

```java
{
  assets("/", "welcome.html");
}
```

A ```GET /``` will display the static file ```welcome.html```.

Here is another example with [webjars](http://www.webjars.org):

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**", "/META-INF/resources/webjars/{0}");
}
```

which would respond to the following requests:

```
GET /assets/jquery/2.1.3/jquery.js
GET /assets/bootstrap/3.3.4/css/bootstrap.css
```

### file system location

By default the asset handler is able to read files from the `public` folder, which is a classpath folder.

It's possible to specify an `external` file system location as well:

```
{
  assets("/static/**", Paths.get("/www"));
}
```

A request to `/static/images/logo.png` is translated to the `/www/images/logo.png` file.

### ETag, Last-Modified and Cache-Control

The `assets.etag` and `assets.lastModified` are two boolean properties that control the `ETag` and `Last-Modified` headers. Both are enabled by default.

The `assets.cache.maxAge` controls the `Cache-Control` header. Allowed value includes: `60`, `1h`, `365d`, etc. This property is off by default: `-1`.

### using a CDN

The asset handler goes one step forward and adds support for serving files from a ```CDN``` out of the box.

All you have to do is to define a ```assets.cdn``` property:

```properties
assets.cdn = "http://d7471vfo50fqt.cloudfront.net"
```

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**");
}
```

A ```GET``` to ```/assets/js/index.js``` will be redirected to: ```http://d7471vfo50fqt.cloudfront.net/assets/js/index.js```


### assets module

There is also a powerful and all-round awesome [assets](/doc/assets) module. This module can validate, concatenate, minify or compress JavaScript and CSS assets.

## precedence and order

Routes are executed in the **order they are defined**. That means that the ordering of routes is crucial to the behavior of an application. Let's examine how this works with some examples:

```java
get("/abc", req -> "first");

get("/abc", req -> "second");
```

A call to ```/abc``` produces a response of ```first```. If we revert the order:

```java
get("/abc", req -> "second");

get("/abc", req -> "first");
```

It produces a response of ```second```.

> As you can see **ORDER IS VERY IMPORTANT**.

How come it's legal with two or more routes on the same path?

Because this is how **filters** for routes are enabled.

A route handler accepts a third parameter, commonly named chain, which refers to the next route handler in line:

```java
get("/abc", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});

get("/abc", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("second");
});
```

Again the order of route definition is important. Forgetting this will cause your application behave unpredictably. You will learn more about this behavior in the examples in the next section.

## request handling

When a request matching a route definition is made to the server, the associated callback functions kick in to process the request and send a response. This is called a route pipe or stack.

Routes are like a plumbing pipe, with requests starting at the first route and then working their way "down" the route stack processing for each path they match.

Each route handler has the capability to send a response or pass the request on to the next route handler in the current stack.

Route handlers, also have access to the chain object, which happens to be the next callback function in the pipe. To make the chain object available to the callback function, pass it as a method parameter:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});
```

If there is no matching callback function after the current callback function, next refers to the built-in 404 error handler, and will be triggered when you call it.

Try to guess the output of:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> rsp.send("first"));

get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> rsp.send("second"));

get("/", (req, rsp) -> rsp.send("third"));
```

Will the server print all of them? "first"? "third"?

It prints "first". The act of doing a {{rsp_send}} will terminate the flow of the request then and there; the request is not passed on to any other route handler.

So, how can you specify multiple handlers for a route, and use them all at the same time? Call the {{chain_next}} function from the callback, without calling {{rsp_send}} (as that would terminate the request). Here is an example:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});

get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("second");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});


get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("third");
});

```

Alternatively, if you **always** call {{chain_next}} just use the `(req, rsp` handler:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
});

get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  System.out.println("second");
});


get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("third");
});

```

The third argument is required if you need to decide whether the next route needs to be executed or not. If you always call {{chain_next}} the third argument isn't required and does exactly what the second argument handler does: it **always** calls {{chain_next}}.

A good example for a filter is to handle e.g. authentication:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  if (condition) {
    // It is OK
    chain.next(req, rsp);
  } else {
    throw new Route.Err(403);
  }
});
```

## content negotiation

A route can produce different results based on the ```Accept``` header: 

```java
get("/", () ->
  Results
    .when("text/html", ()  -> Results.html("viewname").put("model", model))
    .when("application/json", ()  -> model)
    .when("*", ()  -> Status.NOT_ACCEPTABLE)
);
```

This will perform content-negotiation on the Accept HTTP header of the request object. It selects a handler for the request, based on the acceptable types ordered by their quality factor. If the header is not specified, the first callback is invoked. When no match is found, the server responds with ```406 Not Acceptable```, or invokes the default callback: ```**/*```.

Commit message:

assets: resolve missing asset as  404 fix #1105

doc/routes.md, after:

# routes

A route describes the interface for making requests to your application. It combines an HTTP **method** and a **path pattern**.

A route has an associated **handler**, which does some job and produces some kind of output (HTTP response).

Jooby offers two programming models for writing routes:

* Script routes via **lambdas**, like *Sinatra* or *expressjs*
* MVC routes via **annotations**, like *Jersey* or *Spring* (covered later)

## creating routes

A `script` route definition looks like this:

```java
{
  get("/", () -> "hey jooby");
}
```

while an `MVC` route definition looks like this:

```java

import org.jooby.mvc.GET;
import org.jooby.mvc.Path;

@Path("/")
public class Controller {

  @GET
  public String salute() {
    return "hey jooby";
  }
}
```

MVC routes are [covered later](/doc/#routes-mvc-routes) in detail. For simplicity, all the examples use `script` routes, but keep in mind you can do the same with `MVC` routes.

A route was created to handle GET requests at the root of our application. Any other HTTP method can be handled the same way.

If you need a `POST`:

```java
post("/", () -> "hey jooby");
```

or listen to any `HTTP method`:

```java
use("*", "/", (req, rsp) -> "hey jooby");
```

It's also possible to name a route explicitly:

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby")
   .name("salute");
```

The default route name is **anonymous**. Naming a route is useful for debugging purposes (if you have two or more routes mounted on the same path) and for [dynamic and advanced routing](#routes-dynamic-advanced-routing).

## route handler

Jooby offers several flavors for routes:

### functional handler: ()

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby");
```

This handler usually produces a constant value. The returned value will be sent to the client.

### functional handler: req

```java
get("/", req -> "hey " + req.param("name").value());
```

This handler depends on some `external` attribute which is available via the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html) object. The return value will be sent to the client.

### handler: (req, rsp)

```java
get("/", (req, rsp) -> rsp.send("hey " + req.param("name").value());
```

This handler depends on some `external` attribute which is available to the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html) object and the response is explicitly sent via the [response.send]({{defdocs}}/Response.html#send(java.lang.Object)) method.

### filter: (req, rsp, chain)


```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  // do something
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});
```

This is the most advanced handler. You have access to the [Request]({{defdocs}}/Request.html), the [Response]({{defdocs}}/Response.html) and the [Route.Chain]({{defdocs}}/Route.Chain.html) objects.

From a handler like this, it's possible to end a response by calling the [response.send]({{defdocs}}/Response.html#send(java.lang.Object)) method, abort the request by throwing an [Err]({{defdocs}}/Err.html) or allow the request to proceed to the next handler in the pipeline by calling [chain.next(req, rsp)]({{defdocs}}/Route.Chain.html#next-org.jooby.Request-org.jooby.Response-).

## path patterns

### static patterns

```java
get("/", () -> "hey jooby");

get("/help", () -> "hey jooby");

get("/mail/inbox", () -> "hey jooby");
```

### var/regex patterns

```java
get("/user/:id", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// alternative syntax
get("/user/{id}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// matches a path element with the prefix "uid"
get("/user/uid{id}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").value());

// regex
get("/user/{id:\\d+}", req -> "hey " + req.param("id").intValue());
```

Request parameters will be covered later. For now all you need to know is that you can access a path parameter using [Request.param(String)]({{apidocs}}/org/jooby/Request.html#param(java.lang.String)).

### ant style patterns

  ```com/t?st.html``` - matches ```com/test.html``` but also ```com/tast.html``` and ```com/txst.html```

  ```com/*.html``` - matches all ```.html``` files in the ```com``` directory

  ```com/**/test.html``` - matches all ```test.html``` files underneath the ```com``` path

  ```**``` - matches any path at any level

  ```*``` - matches anything except `/`
  
  ```**:name``` or ```{name:**}``` - matches any path at any level and binds the match to the request parameter ```name```

## static files

Static files are located inside the ```public``` directory.

```bash
├── public
    ├── assets
    |   ├── js
    |   |   └── index.js
    |   ├── css
    |   |   └── style.css
    |   └── images
    |       └── logo.png
    └── welcome.html
```

The [assets]({{defdocs}}/Jooby.html#assets-java.lang.String-) method let you expose all the content from a `folder`:

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**");
}
```

The asset route handler resolves requests like:

```
GET /assets/js/index.js
GET /assets/css/style.css
```

It's possible to map a single static file to a path:

```java
{
  assets("/", "welcome.html");
}
```

A ```GET /``` will display the static file ```welcome.html```.

Here is another example with [webjars](http://www.webjars.org):

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**", "/META-INF/resources/webjars/{0}");
}
```

which would respond to the following requests:

```
GET /assets/jquery/2.1.3/jquery.js
GET /assets/bootstrap/3.3.4/css/bootstrap.css
```

### file system location

By default the asset handler is able to read files from the `public` folder, which is a classpath folder.

It's possible to specify an `external` file system location as well:

```
{
  assets("/static/**", Paths.get("/www"));
}
```

A request to `/static/images/logo.png` is translated to the `/www/images/logo.png` file.

### ETag, Last-Modified and Cache-Control

The `assets.etag` and `assets.lastModified` are two boolean properties that control the `ETag` and `Last-Modified` headers. Both are enabled by default.

The `assets.cache.maxAge` controls the `Cache-Control` header. Allowed value includes: `60`, `1h`, `365d`, etc. This property is off by default: `-1`.

### using a CDN

The asset handler goes one step forward and adds support for serving files from a ```CDN``` out of the box.

All you have to do is to define a ```assets.cdn``` property:

```properties
assets.cdn = "http://d7471vfo50fqt.cloudfront.net"
```

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**");
}
```

A ```GET``` to ```/assets/js/index.js``` will be redirected to: ```http://d7471vfo50fqt.cloudfront.net/assets/js/index.js```


All these assets features are controlled globally from `.conf` file or individually:

```java
{
  assets("/assets/**")
    .etag(true)
    .cdn("http://d7471vfo50fqt.cloudfront.net")
    .maxAge("365d");
}
```

### assets module

There is also a powerful and all-round awesome [assets](/doc/assets) module. This module can validate, concatenate, minify or compress JavaScript and CSS assets.

## precedence and order

Routes are executed in the **order they are defined**. That means that the ordering of routes is crucial to the behavior of an application. Let's examine how this works with some examples:

```java
get("/abc", req -> "first");

get("/abc", req -> "second");
```

A call to ```/abc``` produces a response of ```first```. If we revert the order:

```java
get("/abc", req -> "second");

get("/abc", req -> "first");
```

It produces a response of ```second```.

> As you can see **ORDER IS VERY IMPORTANT**.

How come it's legal with two or more routes on the same path?

Because this is how **filters** for routes are enabled.

A route handler accepts a third parameter, commonly named chain, which refers to the next route handler in line:

```java
get("/abc", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});

get("/abc", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("second");
});
```

Again the order of route definition is important. Forgetting this will cause your application behave unpredictably. You will learn more about this behavior in the examples in the next section.

## request handling

When a request matching a route definition is made to the server, the associated callback functions kick in to process the request and send a response. This is called a route pipe or stack.

Routes are like a plumbing pipe, with requests starting at the first route and then working their way "down" the route stack processing for each path they match.

Each route handler has the capability to send a response or pass the request on to the next route handler in the current stack.

Route handlers, also have access to the chain object, which happens to be the next callback function in the pipe. To make the chain object available to the callback function, pass it as a method parameter:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});
```

If there is no matching callback function after the current callback function, next refers to the built-in 404 error handler, and will be triggered when you call it.

Try to guess the output of:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> rsp.send("first"));

get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> rsp.send("second"));

get("/", (req, rsp) -> rsp.send("third"));
```

Will the server print all of them? "first"? "third"?

It prints "first". The act of doing a {{rsp_send}} will terminate the flow of the request then and there; the request is not passed on to any other route handler.

So, how can you specify multiple handlers for a route, and use them all at the same time? Call the {{chain_next}} function from the callback, without calling {{rsp_send}} (as that would terminate the request). Here is an example:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});

get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  System.out.println("second");
  chain.next(req, rsp);
});


get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("third");
});

```

Alternatively, if you **always** call {{chain_next}} just use the `(req, rsp` handler:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  System.out.println("first");
});

get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  System.out.println("second");
});


get("/", (req, rsp) -> {
  rsp.send("third");
});

```

The third argument is required if you need to decide whether the next route needs to be executed or not. If you always call {{chain_next}} the third argument isn't required and does exactly what the second argument handler does: it **always** calls {{chain_next}}.

A good example for a filter is to handle e.g. authentication:

```java
get("/", (req, rsp, chain) -> {
  if (condition) {
    // It is OK
    chain.next(req, rsp);
  } else {
    throw new Route.Err(403);
  }
});
```

## content negotiation

A route can produce different results based on the ```Accept``` header: 

```java
get("/", () ->
  Results
    .when("text/html", ()  -> Results.html("viewname").put("model", model))
    .when("application/json", ()  -> model)
    .when("*", ()  -> Status.NOT_ACCEPTABLE)
);
```

This will perform content-negotiation on the Accept HTTP header of the request object. It selects a handler for the request, based on the acceptable types ordered by their quality factor. If the header is not specified, the first callback is invoked. When no match is found, the server responds with ```406 Not Acceptable```, or invokes the default callback: ```**/*```.
